Let's talk about one more small
thing that makes me happy.
Pop quiz for 75 points.
They're points in super Mario,
they don't really do anything.
What is the one thing that makes
me happier than anything else?
>> No anys.
>> What's that?
>> No anys, because what?
What do anys mess up?
>> Everything.
>> But in particular autocomplete.
[LAUGH] In particular,
autocomplete, right?
I tell everyone else in my team we're
using TypeScript for reliability and
type safety.
It's totally why we use it.
Also, I like autocomplete.
It's amazing to me every
time that it works, right?
You probably noticed
that as I was talking.
So I kinda typed an empty string
I saw those action names,
it's the first time that I
ever saw it in my life, right?
Every time it makes me that happy.
So can I talk about what
doesn't make me happy,
which is the opposite of
what makes me happy, right?
So let's take a look.
I have these, if you've never done this
you are my hero, and I appreciate you.
Which is every app,
I'm like this time I'm not gonna do this.
And I'll have a button cuz maybe
I wanna have a primary button and
a destructive button and
a secondary button, right?
Or the one that I always end up with.
Maybe I just wanna have
a form input that is
a label wired up for the right ID, right?
And I don't have to put them both together
and then realize that they're both inline
blocks and then change the styling on
the two of them, how they play together.
Or a buttoning component,
a submittable input feel.
When I worked at Twilio there was another
team that worked on the design system,
I'm very glad that they worked on
the design system cuz I didn't want to.
And yet on some small level,
I end up having to build my own little
mini design system all the time.
It's just little stuff like this.
Like a button that I can use
that has the right styles and
all the things that I want, right?
Passed in.
But here's the thing,
I'll do one you can do the other.
I think this is the one that annoys
me more so I'm gonna do this one.
Okay.
What do you notice about these prompts?
How many of them are original and
once you've never seen before?
Technically only this one, right?
That's just to put some label in here,
right?
The rest of these,
I am just passing through.
And what would happen
the first time I needed to
autofocus one of these,
what I'd have to do?
I would have to add another prop.
First time I wanna make
one of these required.
If you don't have to do, add another prop.
Yeah, I can keep going with this
example I think we get the point.
In regular JavaScript,
I might choose to do something like this.
So label is special.
I think that's the only one that
was truly special, like Read Only.
I got yelled out about uncontrolled inputs
for the like, it's very rare that you show
people app, where none of the state
management is hooked up, right?
Unless you're teaching.
So I was like, call it a Read Only if
there's no way to update the value.
How about that?
So that's bespoke cuz I was staging and
I was trying to be as like yelling at me.
But generally speaking,
I really just wanna wire up HTML for
it to the same ID as the input ID.
And I would like to pass
on a custom label and
I would like to wrap it in a DIV
to treat it as one package, right?
I don't wanna do this all the time.
So what I would end up doing
JavaScript is you just do label,
take the rest of the props, And
go in here, we'll keep my custom ID.
I guess I'm gonna use the ID for
a second cuz I'm just in case it's
not a unique one I take this hook.
It's mostly for service ID rendering
it gives you unique identifier so
I know that all my inputs have unique IDs.
So keep that.
We'll keep the read only in there
other than these two things.
Anything else that comes in,
Spread it out.
I guess I need on change in this case too.
Cool, cool, but
you'll notice is angry with me, right?
One, cuz I didn't put a comma.
And now it's angry.
It should be somewhere else in a second.
Well, I don't get any auto complete.
If I get rid of these now, ready?
At least these.
I can't use them so I get rid of
them here or the label I needed.
But you can see the red popping up.
It's like hey, these don't work and
stuff like that.
It's shows up on label but it's actually
saying, you gave it an on change.
I don't know anything about non change.
Now if this code were to compile,
if I change the file extension, it works.
But other fun stuff.
No autofocus.
No nothing, right?
So not only do they not compile,
this problem number one.
Problem number two,
I got no autocomplete, right?
And button is the same way.
I'll let you play around
with button in a second.
Like I want.
If wrapping a button,
especially like a button.
I'm literally just returning a button.
Pretend special button where
I'm just playing around with
the classes a little bit.
Pretend you're a button, button,
who is a button that I've wrapped.
So what I really wanna
do is I want to create
a type where my custom stuff, label.
And then all the things
that are part of a regular,
whatever the input field is.
And I think that was a yesterday question
before we saw it with component props,
without ref and component with ref and
stuff like that.
Which is there is a way to
access all of the props, right?
And so, what I can do is I
can basically say hello,
I would like to create a type
that is my special stuff,
plus all the types from another component.
And we can do that super easily.
And let's try it out with that
labeled input, where I started it.
Which is okay, actually even these two.
It was just label that I wanted.
I wanted label to be string.
And I'll change ,can be the normal one.
And so I'm getting yelled at all over
the place, everyone's angry with me.
And what I can do is I can basically say,
If I don't think I'm gonna use a ref,
I'll start with this one and wait.
Which is to say,
take everything from an input.
And now if I look at this,
it's grabbing it from the actual types.
It is literally everything from
the built in, which is an abstraction.
It's a set of abstractions.
TypeScript has a lib dot DOM dot data, Ts.
Then there's JSX and Trinsic elements,
which are like kinda JSX
wrappers on top of that.
Then there's all the React extra stuff,
like the React handlers, so on and
so forth.
And so you can see I'm getting
some of that in place here.
And you can also see nothing is
angry with me anymore, right?
Now because I'm spreading these all
on the right place, and theoretically
you could override read only cuz actually
yeah, the prompts coming in afterwards.
So you could actually even override this
one too cuz it's like order of operations.
Cool set this one, set this one and
then this question on the order
of operations on that but
it's not important right now.
Cool, so now if I go back to a place
where I was blowing up before.
I get everything that
an input field can do.
And none of the stuff that I can't do,
right?
And all of that is kinda
built in with the article.
But as far as TypeScript is concerned,
my special labeled input,
is in fact has all the properties of an
input field cuz I was explicit about which
ones were passing through, right?
And you could see how you
can take this technique.
You could like, okay, and a label,
but I wanna take some of these.
There's danger with some of that.
With all programming the fancier you get,
you start walking on the razor's edge
a little bit and just to be aware of that.
But generally speaking, for some of
these very simple mini design system
components that I end up creating,
I can definitely do that, right?
And it's a super powerful trick to do,
right?
>> Yeah, wouldn't this also require you
to pass, let's say there is a required
property and something marking the input
as the props of some element when
this also force you to pass those required
properties in when you wouldn't otherwise.
>> I mean, if I'm wrapping I think
where they would be required,
they're gonna be required one way or
the other, right?
To answer your question, if for
some reason I needed to get super nuanced,
right?
And so
let's hypothetically answer the question.
Let's say that for some reason,
the regular DOM components
don't have any really required properties,
right?
Cuz turns out the DOM Pre days TypeScript.
So it's fast and loose.
You've never seen the HTML page crash.
Think that's a true statement?
JavaScript and crash HTML, the browser
will do everything to make it work.
But let's imagine we desperately
wanted to create one
of these without autofocus, right?
At which point we pull out one of
those utility types we saw before.
When we say omit, And
you have to do this a lot of times
with more complicated components.
And then here we might say that,
I don't know, right?
[COUGH] And you could do something
along these lines, right?
Where you say, cool let's take a button
that's got everything but this and
then I have thoughts on what
this one should be, right?
I'm yelled at because I said it
was required this time, right?
I didn't put a question mark.
So now I can create one where I'm forcing
which to force autofocus on all of them
was a weird choice on my behalf.
The easier with HTML it's easier to
answer the opposite of your question.
You're like, what if some require
wanna make it optional, right?
In the case of HTML elements
where everything's optional,
it's easy to make something required.
But by saying everything but
this, but then I have strong
feelings about this,
actually we can make it required.
And if I omitted it completely,
we have now removed the ability to
have autofocus whatsoever, right?
So you can compose and
put together recipes of these
types in a super powerful way.